#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy
[http://mpd.wikia.com/wiki/Client:Mpc mpc (>= 0.19)] is required for the latest package. If you can't by some reason upgrade mpc, and mpdpss hasn't been able to save the states of playlists, try the older mpdpss 1.5.

[http://live.gnome.org/Zenity Zenity] is required if you want to use the GTK+ graphical interface. Zenity doesn't require you to install GNOME libraries.

If you use a Debian based system, you should prefer the .deb package. See [#Debian_based_systems Debian based systems].

For any other Unix-like system: [#All_systems All systems].

=== ===
----
=== ===
=== ===
===Debian based systems===
To install MPD, mpc, and Zenity (optional), you can use your package manager or type the following in a terminal (never type the '$'):

{{{
$ sudo apt-get install mpd mpc zenity
}}}
or
{{{
$ su -c 'apt-get install mpd mpc zenity'
}}}

Download the latest .deb package [http://code.google.com/p/mpdpss/downloads/list available here]. Depending on your system, you can just double click on it. Or you can install it in a terminal (version is represented by 'x.x'):

{{{
$ sudo dpkg -i mpdpss_x.x_all.deb
}}}
or
{{{
$ su -c 'dpkg -i mpdpss_x.x_all.deb'
}}}

=== ===
Now you can read the [Using_the_text_interface Using the text interface] section or the [Using_the_graphical_interface  Using the graphical interface] section!

=== ===
----
=== ===
=== ===
===All systems===

MPD, mpc, and Zenity (optional) should be available at your distribution repositories for simple installation. After making sure you have them installed, download the latest .tar.gz package available at [http://code.google.com/p/mpdpss/downloads/list Featured Downloads]. Extract it using your favorite file manager or issuing the command (version is represented by 'x.x', never type the '$'):

{{{
$ tar xvf mpdpss-x.x.tar.gz
}}}

Then go to the directory you extracted:

{{{
$ cd mpdpss-x.x
}}}

And run .install *AS ROOT*:

{{{
$ sudo ./install
}}}
or
{{{
$ su -c './install'
}}}

mpdpss is supposed to work in Linux, Unix, Solaris, Mac, BSD... If it doesn't, we could work together to fix that: open an [http://code.google.com/p/mpdpss/issues/list issue]!

=== ===
Now you can read the [Using_the_text_interface Using the text interface] section or the [Using_the_graphical_interface  Using the graphical interface] section!