#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy
First make sure you have read the [http://code.google.com/p/mpdpss/wiki/Requirements Requirements] section.

If you use a Debian based system, like Ubuntu, MEPIS, antiX, or Linux Mint, you should prefer the .deb package. Go here: [Unpacking#Debian_based_systems Debian based systems].

Any other Unix-like system: [Unpacking#All_systems All systems].

=== ===
----
=== ===
=== ===
=== ===
===Debian based systems===

Download the latest .deb package [http://code.google.com/p/mpdpss/downloads/list available here].

Depending on your system, you can just double click on it. Or you can install it as root in a terminal (version is represented by 'x.x'):

{{{
$ sudo dpkg -i mpdpss_x.x_all.deb
}}}

=== ===
or if you don't have sudo configured:

{{{
$ su -c 'dpkg -i mpdpss_x.x_all.deb'
}}}

=== ===
Now you can read the [Using_the_text_interface Using the text interface] section or the [Using_the_graphical_interface  Using the graphical interface] section!

=== ===
----
=== ===
=== ===
=== ===
===All systems===

Download the latest .tar.gz package available at [http://code.google.com/p/mpdpss/downloads/list Featured Downloads]. Extract it using your favorite file manager or issuing the command (version is represented by 'x.x'):

{{{
$ tar xvf mpdpss-x.x.tar.gz
}}}

Then go to the directory you extracted:

{{{
$ cd mpdpss-x.x
}}}

And run the script (text mode):

{{{
$ ./mpdpss
}}}

Or graphical mode:

{{{
$ ./mpdpss -g
}}}

=== ===
===Tip!===

You can move it to your $PATH (you can get one by issuing the command 'echo $PATH') or you can create your personal PATH, I mean, a directory inside your $HOME where you can store scripts and binaries, so you don't need to modify anything as root!

Let us suppose you created a directory called 'Scripts'. If you use bash, you can add these to a file called .bash_profile in your $HOME:

{{{
# set PATH so it includes user's private bin if it exists
if [ -d "$HOME/Scripts" ] ; then
    PATH="$HOME/Scripts:$PATH"
fi
}}}

Logout and login again. Then move mpdpss to Scripts/ and run it:

{{{
$ mpdpss
}}}

=== ===
If you use the graphical interface, you could then add "mpdpss -g" to your menu or desktop. But this varies from one Desktop Environment or Window Manager to another.

=== ===
Now you can read the [Using_the_text_interface Using the text interface] section or the [Using_the_graphical_interface  Using the graphical interface] section!